Hi everybody.
You're very welcome back.
Now in this lecture we're going to follow one from the previous lecture and what we did in the last
one was the very last piece of code we wrote was about deleting an element from a list.
Now when you use the delete statement and you remove an element from a list that's it it's gone forever.
You can no longer use that element it's gone.
But could there ever be a time when you might want to remove an item from a list but then still want
to use that item.
Well think about it.
Have you ever unsubscribed from an email list.
Well hopefully not mine but if you have you'll know that your email address is still kept in a list
of subscribers.
So when you unsubscribe from an email list your email address is removed and it is then placed in the
list usually called on subscribers.
Or something similar.
But how is this accomplished.
Because we saw in our last example want to use the delete statement to remove an element from a list.
It's no longer available to use.
Well to accomplish this you can use something called the pop method.
Now the pop method removes the last item in a list but let you work with that item after removing it.
So let's create a new list and then start popping.
But before we do that let's add in some comments.
So let's start with today's date
9:36 2016
author.
Here's me
or you in this case.
If you want to put me in as the odor no problem and then let's add in the name of this program and the
name of this program is using the pop method
perfect.
So let's get started with a pop method.
Let's create a new list and let's call this list subscribers.
And in our list let's add in some e-mail addresses.
So let's open and close with single quotes Tony at example dot com.
Let's add a note.
Let's add in another one.
And as always let's separate out the elements of a list with a comma.
Opening closing single quotes John example.
Com come.
Again a comment.
Opening closing single quotes and one more merry example does come perfect.
So these are the subscribers to our e-mail list.
And just to verify.
Let's print these out.
Princeps gripers.
There we go.
Bottom left hand corner a list of the people's email addresses that we have.
So now let's pop a subscriber from our list.
And here's how we do that part subscriber.
So we're creating a variable and we're calling it pop subscriber equals subscribers which is the name
of our list because that's the list we want to remove an element from
that GOP brackets.
And as I said at the start to lecture the pop method will remove the last element from the list.
So what we've done is we've created a variable called Pop subscriber.
And in that variable we are going to save the element that we pop from the list or remove from the list
of subscribers.
And in this case it's going to be the last element which is Mary at example dot com.
So now again let's print out our subscribers
and as we can see the last one from our list has been popped off.
So Mary is no longer in our list because in the real world she may have clicked unsubscribe and let's
print out our variable pop subscriber to make sure that Mary hasn't been popped off and saved into variable
pop subscriber let's print that
pop subscriber and indeed there she is.
Mary an example that come.
So now you get an idea of how an unsubscribe function might work in an e-mail facility or anything similar
like that.
So just to recap what we did.
We popped the value from our list and we then started in the variable pop subscriber.
Next we printed our list of subscribers to show that value had been removed.
We then printed out the pop value and showed that we can still use it.
And isn't that stored in the variable pop subscriber.
So how might this pop method be useful.
Well as you've already said imagine that it's part of an email subscriber program and you want to know
who your most recent subscriber is this is scriber copy last on your list.
We can use the pop method to print the message telling you who your last subscriber was this feature
is commonplace among many e-mail subscription software not to mention millions upon millions of pieces
of software.
So what if we wanted to use the pop method to show us the subscriber on our list.
This can be done.
In fact you can use the pop method to remove an item in a list at any position by including the index
of the item you want to remove in brackets.
So again we have our subscribers list.
So let's just copy this list out.
And let's place it here
perfect and now let's call out the first scriber on our list.
So again we create a variable and we're going to call this variable for subscriber
equals and we're working on our subscribers list obviously.
So we put in the name of our list subscribers and we want to find out the first subscriber.
So Doug pop like we had used in previous examples we slacked out the first element from our list which
is zero position zero.
So we start by popping the first subscriber in a list.
We then print the message about that subscriber let's print that out.
Print open closing single quotes your first subscriber was brackets Plus first subscriber And now let's
close that off with a full stop.
Open closing double quotes full stop and let's run that perfect.
So as you can see down here your first subscriber was Tony St..
Tony and example dot com.
So a very handy nifty little feature.
One thing to keep in mind is that each time you pop night in from a list it's no longer stored in the
original list.
Most of the time you won't know the position of the value you want to remove from a list.
We know the positions here because we just got a list of e-mail addresses and we can see them right
in front of us.
But what happens when you're working with a list of hundreds of thousands or millions of values.
If you note the value of the item you want you want to remove.
You can use Remove method.
So let's stick with a list of e-mail subscribers.
And again let's just paste it in again so that it's fall up again.
And that's printer subscribers just to make sure they are all in their print subscribers.
Let's just clear out
let's run our code there we go our list is back to its original form here at our last line tree.
Tree email address is in earnest.
OK.
Let's use to remove so we may not know the index or the position of the value in a list but we might
know the e-mail address the piece of data.
Let's go subscriber's.
Remove and let's remove John example dot com OK.
Now let's print out subscribers again print subscribers and let's have a look.
Perfect.
Here we go we can see our last line here.
So we have our list and this time it's one out.
John an example dot com.
So like the pop method you can use the Remove method to work with a value that's being removed from
a list.
OK.
Now as we've done previously Let's reset our list of subscribers.
When I say reset I just mean copy and paste it to the end of your code as a next line to be executed
in your program.
So what we want to do now is create a variable called subscribed by mistake subscribed by mistake and
we are going to assign this variable the value of Tony as example dot com.
So now that we have assigned the value Tony at example dot com to the variable subscribed by mistake.
We need to remove that from our list.
So let's do that now.
So we're working on a subscriber's list.
Got remove and we're going to remove subscribe by mistake.
Perfect.
And let's have a look how it prints out print subscribers.
Great.
You can see the last line here is our list.
And Tony at example dot com has been removed.
Now let's see if we can still use that variable.
So it's quite by mistake.
So let's print out a message and we're going to do it.
We're going to put this on a new line.
So as we've seen previously backslash newline this person never going to put in put subscribe by mistake
did not mean to sign up.
OK let's see what I get us.
There we go.
Our last line in our program this person Tony an example dotcom did not mean to sign up.
So most of this code is familiar to you after creating a list of subscribers we created a variable called
subscribed by mistake and assigned it the value Tony an example dotcom we don't use this variable to
tell pite in which value to remove from our list.
We then used our subscriber by mistake variable to print the message.
Boom.
Very very nice work.
That's it for the pop method.
If you have any questions please do not hesitate to ask me if you're having trouble with any content.
Please try out the activities at the end of this section or just shoot me a message.
Thanks for listening and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.